>> Mike North: So the last thing I
wanna talk about are a couple, these
are a couple extensions that I really
like when working with this editor here.
So our app is running right now.
I wanna show you the first one, and
it is called REST Client.
So the benefit of REST Client,
the thing that it does,
it does one thing and
it does it really well.
We can create a file that looks like this.
So this is just a regular text file.
It's got comments in it,
and like request information that
matches a very specific form.
Now what the extension does is it ads
these little send request buttons on top
of things that it can
recognize as a request, right?
This is a GET to this URL.
We can click this.
Let's try this.
I don't think our
app's running.
>> Mike North: Let's try it again.
There it is.
So we can click this and
we basically get the output of
whatever JSON this endpoint emitted.
So if you've ever used something like post
man this does basically the same thing.
The benefit being,
you can check this file into your app.
So this kind of describes exactly
how this backend should work.
You can even do stuff like this,
where this is a PUT request.
This is a header here.
You can use HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2.
And here is the payload, so
this would like set the contents of
a shopping cart, I had that selected.
Sets the contents of a shopping
cart to a particular thing.
Apparently, that's something
has gone wrong with that,
let's try it one more time.
Nope, it doesn't like that for
some reason.
>> Mike North: But really,
really nice in terms of being able
to work with a backend like this.
So that's number one.
That is REST Client.
Number two.
>> Mike North: So
when working with CSS, there are a couple
things you have to pay attention to.
And as we've focus on making
more performance apps,
we need to have an understanding about
what's cheap and what's expensive in CSS
the same way that we know what's cheap and
what's expensive in code.
So there's a great website here and
I will plug it
>> Mike North: It's called CSS Triggers.
And effectively,
what this describes is the cost
of altering different CSS properties.
If you see, we've got three markers here,
Layout, Paint, and Composite.
Composites are generally cheap.
If you have to re-composite,
it just means that you've got two or
three pre-calculated layers, right, maybe
with some opacity involved or something.
They're held in memory and you just have
to maybe move them with respect to one
another, and then figure out what is
the resultant combination of that
thing that those layers become
when they're put together.
So that's pretty cheap.
Painting is a level more expensive,
and that would require on a particular
layer, let's say we've changed a color,
we have to go and
redraw a particular area of that layer.
That's a little bit more
expensive than simply moving,
basically doing the little linear
algebra that's required for compositing.
The most expensive thing
by far is a relayout.
And that would be like if we
changed the dimensions of a div or
something, or
like an image size was not defined and
it arrived on our HTML
after the page loaded.
And it sort of sent all the text
around flying in various directions.
We basically have to calculate
the size of everything on the page.
And that is the most
expensive thing by far.
So it's good to know about these things,
and it varies from browser to browser.
What this extension does is it
adds something in the gutter here
that helps you understand for
a given property
what all is required in order
to respond to that change.
For example, let's say we had a modal.
And when that modal is open,
>> Mike North: So
the modal starts off at,
let's say left 0.
And when the modal is open we wanna
use like a transition of left,
and if we're gonna take like 0.3 seconds.
And we're gonna say left is 300.
>> Mike North: So
what we've done here is like this is
gonna require a whole bunch of work.
A re-layout, a repaint,
and a re-composite.
If we instead did something like this,
>> Mike North: That
will actually create the same visual
result, but it's just a re-composite.
From many browsers this work can
actually be done on the GPU,
so you get a really smooth
animation coming out of the back.
There's way too much information
to remember and to keep track of.
I just love having these
little gutter things here, so
that basically whenever I'm doing anything
with CSS that involves animation,
I wanna see little green marks here.
I certainly want, if I see a purple one,
think about whether there's any
better way that I can do things.
So the last one I wanna
talk about is Code Runner.
Code Runner is fantastic.
So I've got these little scratchpad
that I have been playing with
all day like to copy .js.
Code Runner adds this
little play button up here,
where I can just say run code and
it will say, where's my output?
Let's try that one more time.
>> Mike North: I didn't save the file,
but there it is.
So you can select the piece of code and
run that.
I think the command here is like,
>> Mike North: Run code and
it will just run.
>> Mike North: It just runs
the saved file.
But it works in a variety of languages and
you can map, like you can map
things to custom executables, particularly
when you're learning a new language.
If you start just learning typescript,
it's really nice to just have a scratch
pad where you can just write a small
program and hit the play button and
see what it evaluates to, instead of
having to worry about setting up tools and
running commands.
This basically has everything it
needs to take a simple file, and
to show you the output.
So this is probably my top three
recommended Visual Studio extensions.